---
Title: "Mermaid, MDX, KaTex and @observablehq/plot are a match made in heaven"
Date: "2023-05-25"
---

import Chart from '../../src/components/Chart.js'
import Mermaid from '../../src/components/Mermaid.js'
import ExternalLink from '../../src/components/ExternalLink.js'

Websites are one of the most powerful human expression tools that exist. Its inevitable fate is a direct consequence of what it essentially is, a container and a transport for the human genius.

Since the very first time I sat down to build a website for myself my goal has remained the same. I make them so I can have a personal record of my ideas which I'm able to access, reference and share anytime, anywhere and with anyone I want, always.

As a multidisciplinary individual I often feel it is really hard for me to organize and express the stuff going on inside my head. I'm often too proud about what I come up with so I frequently find myself paralyzed daydreaming about how to express it without ruining it. Programming has always been a tool for me. I think about it like I do about stuff like reading, writing and speaking or even as I do about being able to draw, ride a bicycle or play an instrument.

Like any such kinds of people, I spent my whole life craving knowledge and recognition for whatever I kept doing with what I learned. I feel the need to tell and prove what I know not only because that's one way of making a honest living but because I believe that's also how you make a breakthrough and find joy in life.

Now, one of the first things I wanted a website for was to use it as a notebook for my high school lessons. Of all the subjects, mathematics was probably the one I had the most trouble with. That being of course before chemistry or physics ever crossed my way. All in all though, here we are. Here am I about 25 years apart from that day I first sat down to code a webpage and here I am finally able to do it exactly how I want it.

## Describing a Quadratic function

Writing down its definition in formal mathematical notation.

$$
\gdef\f#1{f(#1)}
\f{x} = ax^2+bx+c
$$

A concise JavaScript implementation of that definition.

```javascript
(x, { a, b, c }) => (a * x) ^ (2 + b * x + c);
```

Plotting some values.

```json
[{ "x": 1 }]
```

<Chart />

<Mermaid>
  graph TD;
      A-->B;
      A-->C;
      B-->D;
      C-->D;
</Mermaid>

You can check how this page was built at <ExternalLink href="https://github.com/n370/n370.info/blob/main/posts/2023/2023-05-25.md">this link.</ExternalLink>
